>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, but
notice that it's returning us back a 0.
That is the default exit code when
a process finishes with success, okay?
So let's just go back to our child for
a moment.
And before we finish,
let's set our exit code,
process.exitCode = 1.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
then if we run our ex7
again,
>> Kyle Simpson: You
notice now that exit code is coming back,
it's detecting that that exit code was 1.
In POSIX standard convention,
a 0 exit code
means everything was fine, anything
non-zero means something went wrong, okay?
And we're going to use the exit
code as our communication channel,
instead of worrying about standard in and
standard out.
We're just going to use exit code that
if our child is successful at its task,
it's going to return 0, and
if it's unsuccessful for any reason,
it's going to return one.
And so our parent, our ex7,
is going to need to listen for
these children and see if their
exit code is returning back 0 or
not to know whether it was successful.
So ex7-child, what we really want
it to do is not do a for loop.
What we really want it to
do is make an AJAX request.
We're going to use fetch and
we're going to fetch against our server.
So let's call fetch, and
here since we're not in
a browser we are going to have
to give it a full URL to use.
So we're going to say
http://localhost:8039,
or whatever port you chose,
and then /get-records.
And we're going to say, res = await fetch,
>> Kyle Simpson: If, let's do this.
Let's do a try catch because these
can fail if things are down.
>> Kyle Simpson: So then if res && res.ok,
then we want to say,
>> Kyle Simpson: records = await res.json.
Same thing we did in the web browser.
We're basically just now
doing it on the server.
I think it was asked earlier in
the course how would I handle making
outbound requests.
This is exactly how I would do it.
I'd use fetch exactly
like I do in a browser.
I'd just use it here on node.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, so
if (records && records.length
> 0) then we know we were successful.
So let's just for good measure,
set process.exitCode = 0, and return.
And otherwise,
if any of that fails for any reason,
then we want to set exitCode = 1.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's try
our ex7-child right now.
And it just runs for a little bit,
and it doesn't give us any indication
about whether it succeeded or not.
So how could we test from the command
line what the exit code is?
We can't really see the exit code, but
there is a way to implicitly determine
what that exit code might have done.
So the way we're going to implicitly
determine that is to observe that
the reason for exit codes is because the
way the command line works if you're doing
multiple commands,
is that if any command fails and
fives a non-zero exit code, it stops
the rest of the processing from happening.
So for example,
if I were to say node ex7-child.js && and
then do a directory listing.
The directory listing is only going to
happen if ex7-child.js gives us a 0
exit code.
So when we run it, we noticed that
we got a directory listing, so
that means it's successful.
I'm going to run that same command.
But before I run that command,
I'm going to take the server down.
And now when I run the command,
it fails right away because we got
an exit code of 1, which then caused
it to short circuit and not run.
So that's how you can test for
yourself that in fact you've got
a child process doing what it's supposed
to be doing, giving you a 1 or a 0.